---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/blog/what-is-a-digital-garden/","title":"What is a digital garden?","tags":["digital-garden","refactored","blogged","shared"],"created":"2026-02-15T13:00:23.866+00:00","updated":"2026-03-09T08:34:13.589+00:00"}
---

I fell down a rabbit hole around digital gardens. I love the thought of allowing ideas to grow and evolve, without the constraints of [[blog/Navigating the Digital Garden\|linear organisation]]. I want to build a richly linked landscape that increasingly blossoms over time. It's so easy to get lost following Wikipedia links. Imagine something similar, yet more personal and experimental. Digital gardens are a vision of an alternative internet, how it could have been if we weren't dominated by Millennial Promote Your Personal Brand™ blogs and behaviorally addictive and morally questionable algorithmic social media slop streams. Digital gardens are hyperlinking at their best. [[blog/Why use a Digital Garden\|Choose]] and explore in a way more natural to how the human brain thinks, by curiously following your neurotically networked hypergraph.

As a software engineer, I spend a considerable amount of time considering how to organise code. Code is just a formal specification of a mental model. Ideas can be considered in the same way. Ideas are groups of thoughts that behave like functions. You have an initial state, it goes through a predefined process, and returns an updated state. Functions can work standalone or be strung together with other functions to model more complex behaviours or ideas. Therefore, for me, a digital garden is a specification of my ideas broken up into thoughts that can be mixed and matched functionally to produce new and more complex ideas.

- [[blog/Navigating the Digital Garden\|Navigating the Digital Garden]]
- [[blog/Why use a Digital Garden\|Why use a Digital Garden]]